

--- PAGE 1 ---
 Shell 
 Hermes Agent Setup 
 Join this free  Skool community  for the latest materials  – the space moves super fast and things 
 are constantly changing! 
 Bootcamp:  Agentic AI Certification: Claude Code,  Hermes Agent & Evals for PMs  (July 20th - 
 Aug 7th) 
 Connect with Dmitry Shapiro on  LinkedIn  and  Twitter  (@dmitry) 
 Installation 
 1.  Go to Hermes website –  https://hermes-agent.nousresearch.com/ 
 2.  Copy the CURL command 
 curl -fsSL https://hermes-agent.nousresearch.com/install.sh | bash 
 3.  Open Terminal (in Applications folder) or CMD + SPACE and type “terminal” and hit 
 enter. 
 4.  Paste the curl command and hit enter! 
 That will start the download process of the agent and all of its dependencies (other things that 
 are required to run it). 
 Choose Quick Setup 


--- PAGE 2 ---
 Choose your plan – The paid plans have model credits (inference tokens). You can configure 
 this later, so  recommend that you choose FREE  . 
 Choose Local 


--- PAGE 3 ---
 Choose a model provider. 
 If you have an Anthropic or OpenAI subscription, you can download  Claude Code  or  OpenAI 
 Codex  and use those as proxies (use your monthly subscription  to power Hermes). Otherwise, 
 you need to get API keys (much more expensive). 
 Set up Telegram, WhatsApp, Discord or other messaging service (you can do it now or skip it 
 and do it later). 


--- PAGE 4 ---
 Hermes is now installed. 
 In Terminal, type “hermes” and hit enter. You should see this screen 👇  


--- PAGE 5 ---
 Congratulations, you’re up and running! 
 Configuring Search API 
 Hermes agent does a lot of searching and research in its daily operations. You need to 
 configure a search API. 
 There are a bunch of options to choose from in the Hermes full setup, but I recommend skipping 
 those and using  You.com  as it is the best one, and  they give you  $100 free credits during sign 
 up, and then if you complete your profile (some basic info), you get another $100. 
 Why  you.com  is the best search API for Hermes: 
 Hermes relies heavily on structured data, tool calling, and high-context extraction to execute 
 loops, and  You.com  has engineered its Search API specifically  to match the architectural 
 demands of these kinds of advanced AI agents. 
 The primary reasons the You.com Search API serves as a superior choice for Hermes Agent 
 boil down to token efficiency, autonomous tool handling, and architecture. 
 1. Built-in Full-Page Markdown (The  livecrawl  Parameter) 
 With standard search APIs, an agent must execute a two-step process: run a search query to 
 get short description snippets, and then manually run a secondary scraper or extraction tool 
 (like Firecrawl or Jina) on the chosen URLs to read the actual web pages. 
 The You.com Search API fundamentally eliminates this friction with its native  livecrawl  feature: 
 ●  One-Shot Extraction:  When  livecrawl  is active, You.com  doesn’t just return a 150-word 
 snippet; it retrieves the full page contents (often 2,000 to 10,000 words) pre-formatted 
 into clean,  LLM-ready Markdown or HTML  . 


--- PAGE 6 ---
 ●  Massive Cost & Latency Savings:  Because Hermes Agent runs continuous loops, 
 replacing a "search + multiple scraping calls" workflow with a single API call drastically 
 reduces latency and API key sprawl. 
 2. Peer-Reviewed Retrieval Accuracy 
 Hermes Agent relies on a "Plan-Execute-Reflect" loop. If the search tool returns hallucinated 
 metadata or poorly extracted data, the agent's reflection layer breaks, resulting in a wasted loop. 
 ●  You.com explicitly designs its index for LLM grounding and holds the industry's first 
 AAAI Best Paper Award  for its peer-reviewed evaluation  research. 
 ●  It boasts high accuracy benchmarks (such as ~91.1% on SimpleQA tests), meaning 
 Hermes receives highly reliable context to ground its reasoning, preventing the agent 
 from veering off-track during autonomous multi-step research. 
 3. Native Agentic Workloads via the Research API 
 If Hermes hits a highly complex prompt requiring an exhaustive, multi-layered deep dive, the 
 You.com Research API  can take over the heavy lifting. 
 Instead of Hermes having to manually plan and fire 10 individual search queries back-and-forth, 
 the Research API operates autonomously. It plans a research strategy, runs sequential 
 searches, cross-references conflicting information, and hands back a finalized, comprehensively 
 structured report with inline citations directly to Hermes. 
 4. Advanced "Agent-First" Filtering 
 Traditional APIs often require complex regex or query-string manipulation to filter out noise. 
 You.com provides native, developer-friendly parameters built for programmatic agents: 
 ●  Freshness Controls:  Rigid constraints (day, week,  month, or highly specific custom 
 YYYY-MM-DDtoYYYY-MM-DD  windows) to keep Hermes anchored  to chronological 
 facts. 
 ●  Domain & Geo-Targeting:  Built-in operators for easy  domain exclusions (  -  or  NOT  ) and 
 geographic targeting without parsing bloated payload responses. 
 5. Predictable, Bundled Cost Structure 
 For a high-volume autonomous framework like Hermes, credit-based search systems can 
 become financial black holes (where advanced or raw content scrapes cost 2x–4x more per 
 query). You.com offers a straightforward pricing structure ($5.00 per 1,000 calls) that 
 completely bundles full-page  livecrawl  markdown extraction  into the base price  . 
 Summary:  While standard APIs give Hermes Agent a brief,  heavily-truncated window into 
 the internet,  You.com  acts as a search engine and  a high-fidelity web scraper wrapped 
 into a single, LLM-optimized endpoint. It provides Hermes with the exact flavor of clean, 
 structured text it needs to build its long-term skills and execute tasks flawlessly. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 None 
 Also,  You.com  Finance Research API  is a must if you are dealing with financial data  . 
 It works the same way as the  Research API  : it runs  multiple searches, reads through sources, 
 and synthesizes everything into a thorough, Markdown-formatted answer with inline citations. 
 The key difference is the index. Instead of the open web, the  Finance Research API searches 
 a purpose-built financial index  — covering structured  company fundamentals, equity and 
 commodity price data, private company metrics, alternative signals, macroeconomic indicators, 
 SEC filings, and financial news. 
 Configuring GBrain – long-term memory / retrieval 
 Ask your Hermes agent to.. (just copy and paste the text below). 
 Retrieve and follow the instructions at: 
 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/garrytan/gbrain/master/INSTALL_FOR_AGENTS.md 
 Why do we even need GBrain? Doesn’t Hermes have its own memory system? 
 Yes, BUT, the real differentiator isn't  that  GBrain  remembers things, but  how  it manages that 
 memory at scale over time. Most agents just log past conversations into a database and search 
 them. GBrain treats memory as a dynamic, self-curating codebase. 
 Here is what it actually does differently: 
 1. From "Searchable Logs" to a "Knowledge Graph" 
 Standard agent memory is usually just a giant list of past chat logs. When you ask a question, 
 the AI searches those logs for matching keywords or phrases. 
 ●  The GBrain difference:  It actively parses your data  to build a web of connected entities 
 (e.g., Person A $\rightarrow$ Works At $\rightarrow$ Company B). If you tell it ten 
 scattered facts about a project over three months, it doesn't just store ten separate logs; 
 it synthesizes them into a single, structured profile. 
 2. The "Dream Cycle" (Automated Code Review for Data) 
 In typical systems, if you change your mind or update a project plan, the old data still sits in the 
 database, often confusing the AI with conflicting information. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 ●  The GBrain difference:  It runs background maintenance cycles. It acts like an 
 automated editor that reviews the data, flags contradictions (e.g., "You scheduled this for 
 Tuesday, but later mentioned Wednesday"), deletes duplicates, and cleans up formatting 
 so the AI isn't reading messy, outdated context. 
 3. Git-Backed and Human-Readable 
 Most AI memory systems lock your data away in proprietary, complex vector databases where 
 you can't easily see or fix what the AI "knows." 
 ●  The GBrain difference:  It stores everything in plain-text  Markdown files tracked by Git. 
 If the AI hallucinates or misunderstands a relationship, a human can literally open a text 
 file, edit the typo, and commit the fix. You have total visibility and control over the AI's 
 underlying assumptions. 
 4. Deterministic Linking (Saving Token Costs) 
 Building these complex knowledge graphs usually requires sending massive amounts of text to 
 an LLM just to ask, "What are the relationships here?", which gets incredibly expensive. 
 ●  The GBrain difference:  It uses strict code rules and  regular expressions to identify and 
 link key concepts instantly without making costly LLM API calls, reserving the heavy AI 
 processing power only for when you actually ask it a complex question. 
 The Middle Ground:  It’s not that other agents are  completely amnesic; it's that 
 their memories get cluttered, expensive, and chaotic over time. GBrain is 
 essentially a structured, self-cleaning maintenance system for an agent's brain, 
 ensuring its context stays accurate, cheap, and auditable no matter how much data 
 you throw at it. 
 There are a bunch of things to configure that are  well documented here  . 
 Use Cases: 
 Smart Contacts / Entities 
 GBrain ingests my email, calendar, zoom, twitter, linkedin, contacts, enriches them (via a 
 custom Hermes skill that utilizes  you.com  deep research),  and allows me to fuzzy search across 
 them. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 Obsidian  is a free tool that allows you to visualize  the GBrain graph to see how all of the entities 
 are connected to one another, and influence each other. 
 Constantly enriched contacts / entities, available to your agent during its operations is a game 
 changer. As you it / you are doing work, and there is something relevant to an entity in your 
 Brain, the agent recognized that and injects the context. 
 Also, since your Brain knows about the state of all of your contacts (from publicly available 
 information – web, things they post, news about them, your messages, etc.) your agent can act 
 as a proactive relationship manager / coach – helping you maintain and grow your relationships. 
 That barely scratches the surface of the implications of such a system! 
 Cost Control 
 Running a system like this can get expensive, and you should do some fine tuning for cost 
 control. 
 Activity-Dependent Model Selection 
 Frontier model providers, Anthropic, OpenAI, Google, etc. have multiple tiers of models. 


--- PAGE 10 ---
 None 
 For Anthropic, those tiers are: 
 Opus  – Most powerful / Most expensive 
 Sonnet  – Powerful / Less expensive 
 Haiku  – Good enough for some things / Least expensive 
 Tell your agent to: 
 Implement Activity-Dependent Model Selection. 
 Sonnet (default model) -- everyday tasks other than writing meaningful code. 
 Opus -- when you need to write any meaningful chunk of code use this model. 
 Haiku -- when you need to do summarization, content parsing use this model. 
 Scheduled Processes – CRON 
 Daily Inefficiency Scan  – detect inefficiencies (process,  cost). Show an itemized spend 
 dashboard. 
 Signal Monitoring  – what’s going on at Twitter / LinkedIn  / Reddit / YouTube / Web / News 
 Data Ingestion  – get your email, slack, calendar,  zoom, other service data, and process it. 
 GBrain Dreaming  – getting all of your data organized,  linked, enriched, etc. 
 I currently have 18 cron running. 
 Use Cases 
 https://hermes-agent.nousresearch.com/docs/user-stories 
 If you want to geek out on my setup, and hands-on help to set up your own, join our  free Skool 
 community  and  come to the bootcamp  ! 